The next topic we're gonna dig into,
and it's gonna be over several chapters
because this is a really important thing
to know how to do when managing a large
TypeScript project at scale, like how
do you convert a project to TypeScript?
And for those of you that already
have a TypeScript project, too,
we're really talking about how do you
continue to evolve a project to stronger,
stricter typing, and stricter linting.
Everyone is probably in a position where,
unless you started out with every
single thing in TypeScript,
with all your lint rules cranked
up to maximum strictness.
Lots of cases, you're sort of in some
middle state where you wish you could
tune things up a little bit more and
always trying to do it.
But we're just gonna start that
whole story of incremental
stronger typing from the very beginning
where we have duck typing with JavaScript.
So, the key thing here is
do it in small passes.
Don't try to do it all at once and
here are my three big tips.
So first, stay focused on specific tasks.
Particularly if you really like types,
It's so
tempting to try to look at a file and
make it a strongly typed as you possibly
could, and then move on to the next file.
The danger here is that you can end up
changing the behavior of code through
improving the types.
It's really easy for bugs to sneak in.
So especially at the very beginning of
this journey, like where we're typing
things as any, sometimes we know that I
should probably create an interface for
this thing and just having the restraint
to make incremental passes.
So, it's almost like you're doing
small layers of improvement.
Even though you know you
wanna go to a great place,
just stay disciplined about completing
tasks and get there slow and steady.
Make sure you have a solid test suite,
right?
We talked about how sometimes there's
the possibility of values being null, and
your JavaScript code might
not handle that properly.
But sometimes fixing that problem like
it'll change your runtime behavior.
And if you have no test coverage, It's
really hard to catch things like that.
The way you achieve stronger typing,
it's not very often the case
that you can avoid perturbing
the way the code behaves at all.
You got to make some changes, right?
Like introducing a type guard,
for example,
that's like a new function that ends up
being invoked, and it exists at runtime.
And then, finally, don't let
the perfect be the enemy of the good.
Take advantage of the whole one of
the big benefits of TypeScript,
it's not supposed to feel like a rewrite.
It's not like you have
a big Ruby code base, and
you're trying to rewrite it in Java or
something like that.
There's been a lot of hard work that
has gone into making TypeScript
something that you can sort
of digest in small bites.
Don't forget that, and don't forget to
benefit from that, it's a good thing.
All right, I [LAUGH] used to have what
I called a three-step approach, and
it's not really three steps.
Step one and two are nice and
approachable, and
step three was like and then do the rest,
do all the other things.
So, I have gotten a lot
more detailed here.
We're gonna talk about this, and together,
we're not gonna do every
single one of these things.
But I made these 11 steps now.
I made this mostly so that you can take it
home you can study it if you're trying to
figure out where you are on this roadmap
of getting to stronger and stronger types.
It's something that you could sort
of look at with some suggestions for
orders of doing things, turning on
certain linting rules one at a time,
and fixing all those things bit.
So we're gonna get through step 5 for
sure, yes.
And then the reason I stopped there
is cuz it's a lot of the same,
where you add a new linting rule or fix a
compiler, turn on a compiler setting, and
then things will light up and we'll go and
address those, but you're in that cycle.
At that point, and it's just sort of like
methodical work to get there, like, I
don't have any special tips that I haven't
written down in this list for that piece.
So, step one this is like
a small step as I can make it.
You wanna get TypeScript into
your build toolchain, and
we're gonna do that without even
renaming our files to ts files.
We have some good js dot comments
that have type information in them.
TypeScript will use that where it can, and
this is sort of the maximally
relaxed mode we can operate in.
Then we're gonna rename all
of our files from js to ts.
Don't worry.
I've written a script for
you that will do this.
You're not gonna be going to 50 files and
changing their extensions.
But just the idea that something becomes
a type script file that will require us
to fix some more things because not
everything can be type-checked.
In the typescript way,
purely using JsDoc types.
So we'll fix a couple of things there, so
don't forget to read this.
Start with TypeScript in the most
permissive possible mode.
We will allow implicit endings.
Step 3 is getting rid of implicit endings,
and this, I think, is one of
the most important things to enable early
because it's part of observability, right?
Meaning handling errors properly so
you don't get square bracket object,
object serialized into Splunk, or whatever
you're using to track User errors.
Having that early in the process gives you
more safety for the rest of the process.
And this is where I recommend bringing
in definitely typed packages.
Although we may bring in earlier,
these are missing types for
JavaScript libraries that
are already in our project.
We'll talk a little more about
definitely typed, but for now, I'll just
say they're community author types that
are meant to sort of match a JS library.
Very much the same thing as
in our little library here.
They're just this declaration
file handwritten to match this,
which would be like, Lodash would publish
this or something like that or React.
Step four is where we're gonna
start doing some domain modeling.
We're gonna model re-create interfaces for
channel and message and team and user and
start threading those through some
React components and things like that.
And then finally, we're working on
Boolean expressions like Boolean logic.
Text to see whether something's defined or
undefined and
how Nullish values are treated, and then
we'll move on cuz everything else here is
just sort of enable a compiler setting or
a lint rule.
And we keep going and going and going, but
you get to a really strict
place by the end of this.
So I would still I feel like even beyond
step 5, this is a pretty good roadmap.
And I looked at the way,
like some of the Git history for
large TypeScript projects I've
contributed to, and this is like roughly.
This isn't the way I had
done it in the past, but
it's the way I wish I had done it, cuz
I can see a lot of scrambling in places
where I switch the order around here.